Blogpost:Adding configuration on how to debug Apache Camel with the Vimspector (#901)
apache/camel-website: content/blog/2022/09/vimdap/index.md

---

> title: "Configure Camel Debug Adapter in Vim to enable Camel Textual Route debugging"

Reviewer: as a title, I'm wondering if we cannot make it shorter and emphasize the important part fo rCamel users. Something like: "Camel Textual Route debugging in Vim"
Your title is fine too, just tryign to give more ideas

date: 2022-09-14
authors: [Navyashree0923]
categories: ["Tooling"]
preview: "Camel Textual Route debugging in Vim"
---

A month before it became easier to provide language support inside Vim, Neovim using coc.nvim -[See this blog post](/blog/2022/07/coc-nvim-camel-lsp/). It is now time to use Camel Debug Adapter in Vim[camel-tooling/camel-dap-client-vim](https://github.com/camel-tooling/camel-dap-client-vim).

# VIM Debug Adapter client for Apache Camel

I just got the debug integration for camel in vim running using [vimspector](https://github.com/puremourning/vimspector).

![Demo](images/vimdap.gif)

## Install
Install the vimspector using vim-plug plugin manager.

> - Inside `.vimrc` file:

Reviewer: the rendering seems bad on the website. I think you need to add an empty line

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1105127/190120224-d863fc3a-e0e8-46f0-afa4-cdb9e0b7eb7a.png)

Author: Thanks. I have updated the change

* To enable Camel Textual Route debugging, now we can use directly `mvn camel:debug`.

## Make the following changes and run your camel application in window-1
```sh
  cd ~/camel-examples/examples/main
```
- vim src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/MyBean.java
- Add the following content inside `MyBean.java` file:
```java
package org.apache.camel.example;

public class MyBean {

    private String hi;

    public MyBean(String hi) {
        this.hi = hi;
    }

    public String hello() {
        return hi + " Begin ? ";

    }
     public String bye() {
        return hi + " End ? ";
}
}
```
- vim src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/MyRouteBuilder.java
- Inside `MyRouteBuilder.java` file:
```java
package org.apache.camel.example;

import org.apache.camel.builder.RouteBuilder;

public class MyRouteBuilder extends RouteBuilder {

    @Override
    public void configure() throws Exception {
        from("timer:foo").routeId("foo")
            .bean("myBean", "hello")
            .log("${body}")
            .bean("myBean", "bye")
            .log("${body}");
    }
}
```
* Compile the source to reflect the new changes
 ```sh
 mvn compile
 ```

> * Launch this example with the profile `camel.debug`
> ```sh
>  mvn camel:run -Pcamel.debug
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Launch this example in Camel debug mode:
```sh
 mvn camel:debug
```
```

## Attach this camel example to Vimspector for Camel Textual Route Debugging in window-2
* Open this file in vim `src/main/java/org/apache/camel/example/MyRouteBuilder.java` and then use the following keys to set the breakpoints.
* Start the Camel debugger by again using the following keys.
* Enter `1099` as port number when it is prompted for user input in vimspector.

> * Now you could able to debug your camel application and again use the following key mappings to instruct the debugger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Now you should be able to debug your camel application and again use the following key mappings to instruct the debugger.
```
